    ICFAI Tech School, Hyderabad
    About Us

About Us
Founder of The ICFAI Group of Educational Institutions

    Mr. N. J. Yasaswy (1950-2011), the enigmatic founder of ICFAI Group of Educational Institutions envisioned to empower citizen through world-class education, paving the path for the establishment of the first ICFAI institute in 1985. The Institute announced its arrival in the Indian education fora by launching high end, innovative professional program that was firstof-its-kind in India, aimed at equipping students and working professionals with cutting-edge knowledge in contemporary areas.
    Mr. Yasaswy, the pioneer in promoting higher education in the private sector had a brilliant academic career: B. Com. (Andhra University 1969 – First Rank), CA Inter (May 1971 – First Rank), CA Final (May 1973 – First Rank), ICWA Inter (July 1970 – First Rank) and ICWA Final (July 1972 – First Rank). He was the recipient of the Basu Foundation Award for the Best Student of the Year from both – The Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India (in 1972) and The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (in 1973).
    During 1974-1980, Mr. Yasaswy was associated with the Administrative Staff College of India as a Faculty Member. In 1981, he started his consultancy firm, Yasaswy Management Associates Private Limited, Hyderabad.
    Mr. Yasaswy was appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh as Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Trading Corporation (1985–88), and Vice-Chairman, Public Enterprises Management Board (1986–88). He was a visiting faculty member at the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (1986-88) and was nominated as a Member of the SEBI Committee on Accounting Standards. He was a member of the Board of Directors of the Association of Certified International Investment Analysts (ACIIA), Switzerland. He authored several books on finance and investments.
    Mr. Yasaswy set up the ICFAI as a single Institute in 1985 without governmental sops or institutional funding, in an era where Government support was the norm. He chose to spend all his energy on the fledgling institution which over the years grew to become a monument to what ambition can deliver. He was instrumental in building several business schools and Universities in the developing states of India, particularly in the NorthEast region. He stood for professional management, excellence in the quality of education offered in the ICFAI institutions, and absolute discipline.
    He was charismatic, a great teacher, an institution builder, a visionary and a genius who was years ahead of his time. His vision will continue to guide ICFAI forever.



    ICFAI Tech School, Hyderabad
    About Us

Vice Chancellor ( In-Charge )

Greetings!

It is with great pleasure that I welcome you to the ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education (IFHE) declared as a Deemed-to-be University established under section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956.

IFHE is a premier Educational Institution in Telangana State which is accredited by NAAC with 'A++' grade. It is dedicated to the cause of teaching and research of global standards. It offers BCA with Specialisation in AI & ML, AI & DS, B.Sc. with Specialisation in Maths, Physics, Data Analytics, Computer Science and Robotics with AI, B.Tech, B.Arch, M.Tech, M.Sc., BBA, BA (Economics), B.Com, B.Sc. with Specialisation in Economics & Data Science, Psychology, M.Sc (Economics), BBA-LLB (Hons), BA-LLB (Hons), BAJ-LLB (Hons.), LLM, MBA and Ph.D. programs. The students are from all parts of India, paving way for inclusive learning space and adds value to the economic growth of the nation, social progress and cultural enrichment. The University has student strength of about 9,000 and faculty strength of about 371.

The quality of the programs offered at the University is ensured by the following factors:

    Designing a relevant curriculum including soft skills
    Internship Program
    Student-centric academic delivery
    Continuous evaluation and feedback
    Focus on research by the faculty
    Industry and foreign collaborations.

Prof. Koti Reddy
Vice Chancellor (In-Charge),
ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education.


Registrar

Prof. (Dr.) S. Vijayalakshmi

She received her Master’s Degree in Commerce in (1986), and a Doctorate Degree in Commerce and Management, in (1994) from Andhra University. She started her career in the Department of Finance at ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education as a Faculty Member in 2001, and was promoted to Associate Professor in 2009, and became a professor in 2016, She Worked as Area Head from 2012- 2014(two years). And she was promoted to Dean in 2014. She is also the Convener of CWD Centre for Women Development IFHE -2015.

Prof. S. Vijayalakshmi is a dynamic academician with 30 years of teaching experience in Accounting and Finance for Undergraduate, Graduate and Ph. D. students.

She has published close to 30 research papers in reputed journals and has presented papers in national and international conferences etc. She has guided several PG and Ph.D. scholars in the field of Finance & Management.

She was awarded “The Women in Education Award” for the year 2016 and 2019, by Business School Affaire & Dewang Mehta National Education Awards. The award is given to women leaders in recognition for their extraordinary work and achievements in academics. She Organized the International Conference on Business and Finance in 2014 - Conference Chair.

She visited several international universities, such as Carnegie Mellon University, University of Pittsburgh, Northern Illinois University, The University of Chicago, etc. in USA for academic and research purposes. She also visited Argonne National Laboratory in USA.

She Interacted with a few professors in US Universities who work in area of environmental and Women's studies to know the best practices followed by these reputed Universities.

She is a member of various boards and committees of the University. Being a Senior Faculty Member and recognizing her rich teaching and administrative experience. She assumed the charge as the Registrar of ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education (IFHE), Hyderabad in July 2017 till date. She has worked on projects related women old age, women safety, women and digitization, women and water.

Registrar of ICFAI Foundation of Higher Education, A Deemed to be Univerity located in Sankarpally & Professor of Department of Finance, IFHE



    ICFAI Tech School, Hyderabad
    About Us

Message from the Director
To ensure holistic development, our curriculum integrates essential courses such as Principles of Economics, Principles of Management, Dynamics of Social Change, and Introduction to Psychology. This integrated approach distinguishes ICFAI Tech, earning respect from employers, educators, and professional institutions.

Esteemed Prospective Students,

It is with great pleasure that I welcome you to ICFAI Tech, the Faculty of Science and Technology within the esteemed ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education (IFHE). At ICFAI Tech, we are committed to cultivating a holistic educational environment that empowers our graduates and researchers to become critical thinkers and impactful societal innovators.

From undergraduate studies to advanced degrees, we offer a flexible academic framework, enabling you to tailor your educational path through a diverse selection of elective courses. Our pedagogical approach emphasizes dynamic teaching methodologies, a contemporary curriculum, engaging workshops, and practical internships designed to broaden your intellectual and global perspectives.

A distinguishing feature of ICFAI Tech is our comprehensive Internship Program, which provides invaluable hands-on experience and nurtures an innovative mindset, effectively preparing you for the professional landscape. This program is meticulously monitored and evaluated by our dedicated faculty and industry mentors, ensuring optimal student development.

To foster well-rounded individuals, our curriculum integrates essential courses such as Principles of Economics, Principles of Management, Dynamics of Social Change, and Introduction to Psychology. This integrated approach distinguishes ICFAI Tech, earning the respect of employers, educators, and professional institutions alike.

I extend a sincere invitation to all prospective students to join the ICFAI Tech programs and become leaders in technological advancement.

K.L. Narayana
Director, ICFAI Tech



    ICFAI Tech School, Hyderabad
    Infrastructure

Infrastructure

    IFHE boasts a scenic campus with smart board classrooms, Learning Resource Center, library facilities, e-resources, well-equipped Laboratories, Computing Resource Center, hostels, and sports and recreational facilities.


English Language Laboratories

    The English Language Laboratories are in use to facilitate interactive and innovative teaching and learning activities along with computer-based exercises and activities to enhance learners’ English proficiency.
    The language Laboratories use the Blended learning method, using traditional and computer-based instruction and learning.
    The language Laboratories provide access to various learning platforms like the British Council and Cambridge University. The objectives of the language laboratories are a) to facilitate self-learning and b) to facilitate complementary learning by using blended learning techniques.


Science Laboratories

    Science Laboratories are spacious teaching laboratories where each student can perform his /her experiments individually.


Physics Laboratories

    Physics Laboratories is well equipped with all the facilities and equipment required for B.Tech./B.Sc. students to do experiments in the areas of mechanics, optics, electricity and magnetism as part of their Curriculum. The physics laboratories has experimental facilities for experiments like Compound Pendulum, Moment of Inertia of Flywheel, parallelogram law of forces, Dispersive power of the material of a prism, Diffraction Grating, Magnetic Field along the Axis of Current-Carrying Coil by Stewart and Gees Method, Hall effect, Planck’s constant.


Chemistry Laboratories

    Chemistry Laboratories is well equipped with all the facilities and equipment required for B.Tech./B.Sc. students to do experiments in the areas of conventional titrimetry, colorimetry, conductometry and potentiometry.
    Chemistry laboratories has experimental facility for experiments like full-fledged volumetric analysis setup, digital pH meters, Conductivity meters, Colorimeters, Viscometers, UV-visible spectrophotometer, Double distillation unit, Melting point Apparatus, BOD and COD analyzer.


Laboratory of Imagination Visualization and Artificial Intelligence (LIVIA)

The unifying theme of LIVIA is the perception and modelling of dynamic environments (2D and 3D scenes, speech, etc.) using techniques in artificial intelligence. The laboratory’s scientific orientation revolves around the key foundations of “large-scale processing, analysis and interpretation of images and videos.”

From a scientific point of view, LIVIA’s research and development activities are based on six main conceptual axes and their main fields of application

    Machine learning
    Computer vision
    Pattern recognition
    Adaptive and intelligent systems
    Information fusion
    Optimization of complex systems.

Our group’s research interests lie at the intersection of the theory and application of machine learning - with a focus on applications in computer vision. With a strong interest in the mathematical fundamentals and a passion for real-world application, our group aims on being at the forefront of the field, by carrying out impactful research in the areas of deep learning, machine learning and computer vision, guided by application contexts derived from real-world use.

The techniques developed at LIVIA are used to solve concrete and complex problems, for example, in the development of convolutional neural networks to detect tumour’s or the level of depression of a patient, and this in a context where must deal with a massive amount of data that typically has limited annotations. The fields of application which are the subject of our main research initiatives are:

    Analysis of medical, satellite, aerial images, etc.
    Biometrics: recognition of individuals from the signature, the face, the voice, etc.
    Automatic processing of handwritten documents
    Affective computing for health monitoring
    Security and surveillance.


Civil Engineering laboratories

The State-of-the-Art Laboratories are special features of the department that endow its students with advanced technical knowledge. The Civil Engineering department has the following state-of-the-art laboratories:

    Engineering Graphics
    Surveying
    Mechanics of solids
    Fluid Mechanics
    Hydraulics & Hydraulic Machines
    Geotechnical Engineering
    Transportation Engineering
    Building Materials & Concrete Technology
    Building Drawing using AutoCAD
    Design of Concrete Structures
    Finite Element Analysis using ANSYS


Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) and Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (AIDS) Laboratories

    Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) and Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (AIDS) departments are equipped with state-of-the-art academic and research laboratories.
    The academic laboratories are an important source of imparting a solid foundation on various core courses like computer programming, Data structures, Operating system, Computer Networks, Databases, advanced courses like Cyber Security, Artificial Intelligence, Machine learning, IoT, Cloud computing, and Blockchain technologies.
    The department also ensures to provide facility to carry out Technical Innovation Projects (TIP) and Special Projects so that students become industry- ready employees.
    Some of the laboratories are connected to self-learning facilities like Nptel, Swayam and Digital libraries.
    The following are some of the highlights of the department Laboratories:
        All systems are upgraded to i7 processors.
        All systems are connected to Gigabit Ethernet and UPS systems with good power backup.

Electronics and Communication Laboratories

Engineering Laboratories in the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering are equipped with state of art facilities for the undergraduate, post-graduate, M.Tech & Ph.D courses. 

Different laboratories in the department are:

    Digital Electronics Laboratories
    Microprocessor and Interfacing Laboratories
    RF Microwave Laboratories
    Power Electronics Laboratories
    Electrical Machines Laboratories
    Communication System Laboratories
    Digital Signal Processing Laboratories
    Electronic Circuit Analysis Laboratories
    PCB Design Laboratories

Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering Laboratories was established with the vision of developing the department as a center of excellence in R & D, in the field of Electronics and Communication Engineering and make the students blossom into meritorious and self-disciplined engineers through hard work. Electronics and Communication engineering is a swiftly advancing field, with new ideas emerging every other second. The Laboratories are equipped with extensive simulation tools like Spice and MATLAB tools. 

Mechanical Engineering Laboratories

The department has laboratories equipped with sophisticated facilities/equipment for various approaches of the interdisciplinary approach in terms of both software and hardware. The students are engraved with the skill sets which make them industry ready and here is the list of a few laboratories:

    3D Printing Laboratories
    CAD/CAM Laboratories
    Engineering Materials Laboratories
    Engineering Measurements Laboratories
    Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer Laboratories
    Hydraulics and Pneumatic Systems Laboratories
    Mechanics of Solids Laboratories
    Basics Mechatronics Laboratories
    Advanced Mechatronics Laboratories
    Machining Processes and Metrology Laboratories
    Thermal Engineering Laboratories
The laboratories and experiments are designed in such a way that the creativity and analytical skills of the student are enhanced so that he/she will be able to design and develop new mechatronic systems. The laboratories are equipped with advanced facilities/equipment like CNC trainer lathe, 3D Printer Dreamer, 3D Printer Guider, Sense 3D Scanner P/N 391230, PLC Trainer Kit, Temperature Control Panel, Belt Conveyor Panel, Traffic Light Control Panel, Sensor Module, Sensor Trainer Kit, CNC controlled EDM Machine, Stereo Zoom Microscope (DS2-88), UTM, Compression testing, Profile Projector, Strain, temperature, force and vibration measurement. The laboratories are equipped with advanced software’s like Auto CAD, ProE, Flash forge, Hercus, Ansys and MATLAB-Simulink. 

IcfaiTech Infrastructure -
 
 
Interactive Smartboard/electronic whiteboard classrooms

    The University is equipped with interactive smartboards in place of chalkboards and paper-based lessons do not connect with students in the present world.
    With the computer/laptop connected to the Internet, the faculty can access information around the world in the form of images/videos related to their courses. (The faculties can access global material in the form of photos and videos relevant to their subjects by connecting their laptop or computer to the Internet.)


Laptops

    All the B.Tech. students should purchase laptops.
    The purpose of having laptops is to enable them to be connected anytime to solve laboratories problems, etc.


Learning Resource Center (LRC)

    The University has a central library ‘Sri N J Yasaswy Memorial Library’, named after the founder of ICFAI Group.
    The University also has two more libraries attached to the IcfaiTech (Faculty of Science & Technology) and the Faculty of Law.
    The three libraries are fully computerized with integrated library management software viz., Libsuite.
    The spacious central library is spread over three floors, and has a carpet area of 45,000 sq.ft. and is centrally air conditioned.
    It has a seating capacity of 700. The two libraries at Faculty of Science and Technology and Faculty of Law have a spacious carpet area.
    The library staff is professionally qualified and experienced. They maintain the library efficiently, catering to the needs of the users.
    IcfaiTech has a well-stocked library containing reference materials, magazines, journals, and books of national and international publications.
    IcfaiTech has a digital library consisting of various databases, namely, J-Gate, EBSCO, Springer, IEEE, NPTEL & SWAYAM etc. These databases facilitate the research activities of students and faculty members.

 Library Holdings

    The Central Library has a diverse collection of books, CD/DVDs, reports, and national/international periodicals related to all functional areas of management, economics, science & technology, law, architecture, and general books.
    All the library activities are computerized with the help of Libsuite, the integrated library management software. The library documents are classified according to the Dewey decimal classification system.
    An online catalogue is maintained. This helps the students, faculty and staff to trace books easily. All the documents are bar-coded and bar-coded identity cards are issued to the users (students, faculty & staff) for borrowing the documents.
    The library also subscribes to several online databases such as EBSCO, Emerald, Science Direct, and ProQuest, etc. To enable the users to access these databases as well as the library catalogue (WebOPAC) through the campus intranet. 
 Photocopying facilities are also available within the library premises. Research related software like IBM SPSS & SAS are made available to the students, scholars and faculty members. Research related books, monographs, and dissertations/theses are housed in the reference section.
The latest books and revised editions in the related fields are procured every month keeping in view future requirements.
The library has a holding of 99,665 books and 17,360 e-books. 3,190 CDs/DVDs and 3,788 other holdings. It has subscribed to 52 printed international journals, 126 printed Indian journals, and 2,500 online international journals.
The library has also subscribed to 21 printed international magazines and 100 printed national magazines. 


E-resources

    It has 27 Online Databases (E-resources) that includes J-Gate Engineering; IEEE ASPP+POP; Springer E-Journals; Science Direct; EBSCO Engineering Collection; EBSCO (Business Source Complete); EBSCO (Econlit); Emerald Management Xtra; Marketline; ProQuest; JSTOR; Capitaline Plus; Cabell’s Directories; CMIE (Prowess, Economic Outlook, Capex, Industry Outlook); Prime Database; Scopus; EPWRF Datasets; Taxmann (FOL); Manupatra Online (FOL) and EBSCO E-Books Business Collection.



