Instructions to Student
IFHE UG Summer Term Examinations
Page 1 of 2
July 26, 2025
1.
i. “Student ID” card are compulsory for writing exams
ii. Students are required to come Dress Code else they may not be allowed
to write the exams
iii. Showing softcopies in mobile phones is NOT ACCEPTED for admission to exam.
 The student who does not have an ID card can meet SSD for issue of an alternative
attested photo ID.
 Bring your own water bottle. Water bottles are NOT provided in the examination hall.
 All students’ queries related to examinations should be sent by email ONLY to
Exam_Queries@ifheindia.org
2. Students are allowed into Exam Hall till 10 mins after exam starts. After that
they will NOT be allowed into exam hall.
3. The students have to write the exam in the correct QP cum AB assigned to him.
If a student writes exam in another Question Booklet, other than one assigned to
him/her, he/she will receive Zero in the ET exam and will not to be allowed to
write make-up exam/supplementary also.
4. The students are advised to check their details in the roster and QP-cum-AB
before signing the roster.
a. The students have to sign with same signature in roster and on QP-cum-
Answer Booklets. Writing of the name as signature is NOT valid.
b. The signature should be the same in all examinations –rosters & QP-cum-
Answer Booklets.
5. Personal Bags & effects are to be kept OUTSIDE exam hall.
a. The Examination Department does not undertake and also are not responsible for
safe keeping of any such items.
6. Students are permitted to bring to their table ONLY the following: Pens, Pencils,
Erasers, Sharpeners, Foot-rule and Normal /Scientific calculators.
Instructions to Student
IFHE UG Summer Term Examinations
Page 2 of 2
7. CCTV. The exam team will be monitoring the exam in each room through CCTV.
8. Students are allowed for washroom from 12.00 pm to 12.30 pm in the
morning session and from 4.00 pm to 4.30 pm in the afternoon session
9. Students can submit the exam answer booklet after 12.30 pm / 4.30 pm ONLY and not
before.
10. If students wish to use washroom after 12.30 pm/ 4.30 pm, they have to submit the
answer booklets and leave the exam hall and they will not be allowed to return to
continue with the exam.
11. If the students have any special needs for washroom, please secure a medical
certificate signed by Campus Doctor and submit before the exam so that alternative
arrangements can be made for them.
12. Students are NOT allowed to carry any type of mobile phones, electronic/smart watches
and electronic gadgets. Please NOTE possession of Mobile phone / smart watches is an
unfair practice, irrespective of whether used or not.
a. If found by Invigilator, the student will be reported for unfair practice and the
items will be confiscated.
13. Students are NOT permitted to exchange stationery/calculators etc. inside the
examination hall.
14. After occupying the allotted seats and before start of the examination, each student is
to check his/her desk and the surroundings for any material.
a. If any found, such material(s) should be IMMEDIATELY handed over to the
Invigilators.
b. Subsequent discovery of such material(s) will be construed as UNFAIR PRACTICE
