Instructions to Student
IFHE ALL UG End Term Examinations from 01-Dec onwards
Page 1 of 2
Ref. No: IFHE/Ex/519 November 29, 2025
*** Important Change in Question Paper & Answer Booklet Process
The Question Paper (QP) and Answer Booklet (AB) will be issued separately. The question
paper must be tied with the answer booklet while submitting.
The answers to the questions should be written in the Answer-Booklet in the ‘pages
specified against each question on the first page of the question paper’
If the answers are not written in the specified pages, the evaluator will award zero marks.
Student should not write their Enrolment Number and/or Name anywhere on the
question paper or the answer booklet.
*** Signature of student on Question Paper & Answer Booklet
Student should not write his enrolment no., name or signature on the question paper
The student should NOT write ‘their name as signature’ in the answer booklet and in the
roster of the examinations
The signature MUST be same in all examinations.
The students should write the exam in the correct Answer Booklet (AB) assigned
to him. If a student writes exam in another Answer Booklet (AB), other than one
assigned to him/her, he/she will receive Zero in the ET exam and will not to be
allowed to write make-up exam/supplementary also.
***Compulsory for writing the exam
i. “Hall ticket with Photo” AND “Student ID” card is compulsory for writing exams
ii. Students are required to come in Uniform else they will not be allowed to
write the exams
iii. Showing softcopies in mobile phones is NOT ACCEPTED for admission to exam.
1. No ID Card. The student who does not have an ID card can meet SSD for
issue of an alternative attested photo ID.
2. Bring your own water bottle. Water bottles are NOT provided in the
examination hall.
3. Late coming. Students are allowed into Exam Hall till 10 mins after exam
starts. After that they will NOT be allowed into exam hall.
4. Check Roster for Booklet No. The students should check in roster, their
Booklet no. given against their enrollment no. and also check that they are
Instructions to Student
IFHE ALL UG End Term Examinations from 01-Dec onwards
Page 2 of 2
signing on the same booklet no. before signing the roster.
5. Personal Bags & effects are to be kept OUTSIDE exam hall.
a. The Examination Department does not undertake and also are not responsible for
safe keeping of any such items.
b. Students are permitted to bring to their table ONLY the following: Pens, Pencils,
Erasers, Sharpeners, Foot-rule and Normal /Scientific calculators.
6. CCTV. The exam team will be monitoring the exam in each room through CCTV.
7. Washroom Permission. There is no washroom permission during the
3 hours of the examination. Students have to adequately come
prepared for the same.
i. If the students have any ‘special needs for washroom’, please secure a medical
certificate signed by Campus Doctor and submit before the exam so that
alternative arrangements can be made for them.
8. Submission of Answer Booklets. Students can submit the exam answer booklet along
with QP after 12.15 pm / 4.15 pm ONLY and not before.
9. Restricted Items. Students are NOT allowed to carry any type of mobile phones,
electronic/smart watches and electronic gadgets. Please NOTE possession of Mobile
phone / smart watches itself is an unfair practice, irrespective of whether used or not.
a. If found by Invigilator, the student will be reported for unfair practice and the
items will be confiscated.
b. Programmable Calculators not allowed. Indicative list of programmable
calculators is provided
10. No Exchange. Students are NOT permitted to exchange stationery/calculators etc.
inside the examination hall.
11. Check immediate surroundings. After occupying the allotted seats and before start of
the examination, each student is to check his/her desk and the surroundings for any
material.
a. If any found, such material(s) should be IMMEDIATELY handed over to the
Invigilators.
b. Subsequent discovery of such material(s) will be construed as UNFAIR PRACTICE.
12. All students’ queries related to examinations should be sent by email ONLY to
Exam_Queries@ifheindia.org

Instructions to Student
IFHE ALL UG End Term Examinations from
07-May to 04-June-2025
Page 1 of 2
Ref. No: IFHE/Ex/335 April 29, 2025
1.
i. “Hall ticket with Photo” AND “Student ID” card are compulsory for writing exams
ii. Students are required to come Dress Code else they may not be allowed
to write the exams
iii. Showing softcopies in mobile phones is NOT ACCEPTED for admission to exam.
• The student who does not have an ID card can meet SSD for issue of an alternative
attested photo ID.
• Bring your own water bottle. Water bottles are NOT provided in the examination hall.
• All students’ queries related to examinations should be sent by email ONLY to
Exam_Queries@ifheindia.org
2. Students are allowed into Exam Hall till 10 mins after exam starts. After that
they will NOT be allowed into exam hall.
3. The students have to write the exam in the correct QP cum AB assigned to him.
If a student writes exam in another Question Booklet, other than one assigned to
him/her, he/she will receive Zero in the ET exam and will not to be allowed to
write make-up exam/supplementary also.
4. The students are advised to check their details in the roster and QP-cum-AB
before signing the roster.
a. The students have to sign with same signature in roster and on QP-cum-
Answer Booklets. Writing of the name as signature is NOT valid.
b. The signature should be the same in all examinations –rosters & QP-cum-
Answer Booklets.
5. Personal Bags & effects are to be kept OUTSIDE exam hall.
a. The Examination Department does not undertake and also are not responsible for
safe keeping of any such items.
6. Students are permitted to bring to their table ONLY the following: Pens, Pencils,
Erasers, Sharpeners, Foot-rule and Normal /Scientific calculators.
Instructions to Student
IFHE ALL UG End Term Examinations from
07-May to 04-June-2025
Page 2 of 2
7. CCTV. The exam team will be monitoring the exam in each room through CCTV.
8. Washroom Permission. There is no washroom permission during the
examinations. Students have to adequately come prepared for the
same.
9. If the students have any special needs for washroom, please secure a medical
certificate signed by Campus Doctor and submit before the exam so that alternative
arrangements can be made for them.
10. Students can submit the exam answer booklet after 12.30 pm / 4.30 pm ONLY and not
before.
11. Students are NOT allowed to carry any type of mobile phones, electronic/smart watches
and electronic gadgets. Please NOTE possession of Mobile phone / smart watches is an
unfair practice, irrespective of whether used or not.
a. If found by Invigilator, the student will be reported for unfair practice and the
items will be confiscated.
12. Students are NOT permitted to exchange stationery/calculators etc. inside the
examination hall.
13. After occupying the allotted seats and before start of the examination, each student is
to check his/her desk and the surroundings for any material.
a. If any such material(s) is found should be IMMEDIATELY handed over to
the Invigilators.
b. Subsequent discovery of such material(s) will be construed as UNFAIR PRACTICE.
-Controller of Examinations
