Internship Program I Checklist
Name: _________________________________________
ID No: _________________________________________
IP II Station: _________________________________________
Duration: From ______________ To ________________
Faculty of Science & Technology
IFHE University, Hyderabad
(A Deemed University under Section 3 of UGC Act, 1956)To:
Internship Program – I Students
Dear Friends,
This booklet consists of a series of Internship Assignments, which basically aim at
providing first exposure to the activities of the professional world. These assignments have been
broadly classified into several groups, e.g. Product Survey, Product Specification, Raw Material
Production, etc.
As you would appreciate almost all of these areas would require application of your
understanding of the basic physical, social and engineering science fundamentals, as also your
skills acquired in terms of analysis and application-oriented courses, towards the task of
systematically studying the nature of real life problem complexes.
It is suggested that you could look at these assignments as kind of lead questions of tasks
or some kind of a checklist. While going through the Internship Program be intellectually alert
and seek the understanding that is obvious to come from completing of such assignments. In the
process it is important that you merely do not approach the professional experts and the faculty
with an eternal hope of being spoon-fed.
Beyond the years of university life, there is a long period of professional activity awaiting
your involvement which will be basically in terms of identifying a problem, your ability to
research the issues as also the parameters behind the problem in the presence of heavy
uncertainties and insufficient data-base and your ability to then intelligently abstract the real
essence of the problem.
These activities require you to have a dialogue with the knowledgeable people from the
field, thus in turn improving your information as also database so as to get geared to evolve the
strategy and techniques to resolve the problem at hand. It is expected that your will make every
effort to simulate this reality of life as you go through the lead tasks. It is in this context that it is
visualized, that the efforts made here would be of particular significance to IP-I students in
strengthening the professional personality.
Finally, irrespective of your discipline/stream, you must try to seek answers to the entire
spectrum of assignments. This time tested checklist has been prepared based on our discussions
with various professional experts. After completing your Internship program, I am sure you will
have valuable suggestions to make in improving the checklist. Please feel to communicate all
such suggestions to the undersigned.
I take this opportunity to wish you best of stay at your respective IP station. I am
confident that the IP-I Program would be intellectually challenging and you would benefit
professionally.
Internship Programs Chairperson
Faculty of Science & Technology, IFHE UniversityINTRODUCTION
The assignments have been broadly classified into the following groups.
Product Survey
Product Specification
Raw Materials
Production Process
Equipment
Piping, Valves Pumps & Motors
Capacity Utilization
Inventory
Quality Control
Organizational Structure
Management Information System
Business communication
Research & Development (R& D)
Materials of Construction
Instrumentation & Controls
Waste Management
Engineering Design & Development Consultancy
Design Decisions
(a) Plant Size, (b) Site Location
(d) Site Layout (e) Basic Plant Design
(g) Plot Plan
(h) Plant Layout
(c) Transportation Route
(f) Plant Site,
(i) Township Foundation
& Superstructure
Design Calculations
Utilities
Drawings & Map Reading
Project Engineering
Infrastructure Facilities
Plant Economy
Information Processing Center
Lead queries/guidelines for the above assignments towards seeking the first exposure to
the professional world is given below in this checklist.1. PRODUCT SURVEY
1.0 What are the various products pursued by the professional / industrial unit where you
are attending your IP-I courses?
1.1 Perhaps, in the simplest possible manner an industrial unit can be defined as a system that
transforms raw material(s) into product(s). In this context, as all of us are aware, the
production and manufacturing units such as copper, zinc, fertilizer or steel complexes or
various manufacturing plants or electrical, mechanical or chemical goods producing
factories or electrical-power plants etc. come under the category of the industrial units.
As a linear extrapolation of the above thought process, can we also describe research
laboratories or banks or publishing-houses as production units and accordingly classify
them under the group of industrial units? If yeas and if the host-organization where you
are attending your IP comes under this category, describe the various products pursued by
the host-organization.
1.2 Describe a short historical sketch of the product (s) pursued by the industrial unit being
studies in terms of its (products) market growth details?
1.3 Who are the customers for the products (s)?
1.4 On the basis of past date and using the technique of the mathematical modeling, obtain
the product demand and supply estimates for the coming decade. This exercise can be
done at the national regional, state as well as local levels.
1.5 Give industrial sector wise as also geographical province-wise breakdown of total
product demand.
1.6 What are five-year plan estimates for the product demand?
2. PRODUCT SPECIFICATION
2.1
Give details pertaining to the various raw materials incorporated in each of the products
in terms of quantity, specifications, availability, purchasing as also transportation
cost etc.
3. RAW MATERIALS
3.1 State details pertaining to the various raw materials incorporated in each of the products in
terms of quantity, specifications, availability, purchasing as also transportation cost, etc.
3.2 If the industrial unit under reference is a mining scheme, then study and sketch the
geological map of the area from where the raw-material deposits are being obtained.
3.3 Describe various techniques for quantifying the proven reserves of the raw materials
under reference?
3.4 What are the various regions in India with known/proven reserves of the raw materials
under reference?3.5 Are there any raw materials from the ones described in the assignment 3.1 which are
imported? Give the details.
4. PRODUCTION PROCESS
4.1 Draw a schematic flow-diagram of the product manufacturing process.
4.2 Briefly describe each stage in the production/manufacturing process.
4.3 Draw the basic process flow sheet containing only major and basic vessels /sub-
systems/equipment and for each of these terms provide information in terms of details
like.
(i) The description of the item.
(ii) Size
(iii) Material of construction
(iv) Operating temperature
(v) Operating pressure
(vi) Power requirements (e.g. say agitation)
(vii) Instruments accompanying,
(viii)Services (water, steam and so on) needed, etc.
4.4 In continuation of 4.3 draw process flow sheet for each of the subsystems, thus indicating
every component of the process.
4.5 What do you understand by the term ‘Piping & Instrumentation (P&I) Diagrams’ for a
process plant? Study as many P&I Diagrams as possible.
5.
EQUIPMENT
5.1 For as many equipment of the plants as possible obtain details like:
(i) Name of the manufacturer,
(ii) Specifications,
(iii) Materials of construction,
(iv) Cost
(v) Delivery time,
(vi) Transportation problems, if any, etc.
5.2 If the IP-I station attended by you happens to be a mining project what are the various
equipments needed for the quarry operations? For these equipments also obtain various
information details as the ones listed in (5.1).
5.3 Give names of as many manufacturers as possible from whom the industrial production
unit can be obtained on a turnkey basis.
5.4 The process of inviting and selection of bids plays an important role in the procurement
of equipments in the industry. Describe this process in its entirety.
5.5 List major mechanical as also electrical equipment in a modern power station. (apart
from on-the-spot study, any reference book on a modern power plant practice as ‘theproject report’ for the particular power plant, where, say, the IP-I station is being hosted
will constitute a ready resource material to obtain the required information).
5.6 At the industrial unit under reference, seek as many opportunities as possible to be
exposed to details such as:
(i) Preparation of tender specification,
(ii) Reviewing of a vendor’s drawings
(iii) Tender evaluation, etc. (Normally, you should be able to find a typical tender notice
in any issue of a national daily).
5.7 Study the Process of preparing specifications for the equipment procurement
6. PIPING, VALVES, PUMPS & MOTORS
6.1 In case the industrial hosting IP-I has piping installations, study and sketch the same.
6.2 What are the types, sizes and applications of various valves that have been used in the
industrial unit under reference?
6.3 Study an electrical connections diagram for a power plant.
6.4 What are the various electric motors and drives used in the plant under consideration?
6.5 Discuss the types and locations of electrical meters in the plant under reference.
6.6 List various types and sizes of pumps
consideration.
that have been used in the plant under
6.7 Compare the centrifugal and reciprocating pumps in terms of their applications and
describe various factors that must be kept in mind while choosing their sizes and
capacities. Illustrate the said factors with the help of examples from the plant.
6.8 What do you understand by terms such as Service water pump, Chemical injection
pumps, Ash plant pump and Fire Service ump?
7.
CAPACITY UTILISATION
7.1
What is the capacity of the total plant/shop/section under reference?
7.2 What are the units in which the capacity is measured? For example capacity of a
locomotive manufacturing plant or pumps manufacturing plant or cycle producing
plant may be measured in numbers, while capacities of plants producing castings or
forgings or structures or cement may be measured in weight. (Against this the
capacity of a cloth or pipe manufacturing plant would be obtained in meters and so on).
7.3 For the plant under reference, what is the criterion for the determination of the plant
capacity? Further, obtain the number of shifts worked and the number of staff employed
in each shift. Also, explore the existence of any critical equipment(s) in the plant and list
the same.7.4 The criterion for the determination of the plant capacity may be rendered inadequate due
to reasons such as follows: -
(i) Failure to indicate adequate weightage to different products.
(ii) Failure to include the total output.
(iii) Failure to consider differences in ages of different equipment, etc. Critically
analyse the criterion for the determination of the plant capacity discussed in the
assignment (7.3).
7.5 Is the actual production equal to the plant capacity? What has been the Production over
last six months? (Give the monthly highest, lowest and also draw the daily production
curve).
7.6 Absenteeism, breakdown of equipment, power shutdown, non-availability of raw2
materials, non-availability of semi-finished material from the previous operation, non-
availability of orders, non-availability of tools, jigs, fixtures, etc., shut-down of
compressor, crane, etc., awaiting instruction and so on are some of the reason which lead
to idling of equipment or staff. Evolve a methodology for studying the plant capacity.
Further, study the factors behind the over-utilisation or the under-utilisation of the plant
capacity for the unit under-reference.
7.7 In continuation of the assignment (7.6) if the capacity has been under utilized then obtain
the percentages of idleness for the last six months against each factor. Are there any
norms for the acceptable percentages of idleness?
7.8 In continuation of the assignment (7.6) if capacity has been over utilized then obtain the
percentages of over-utilisation for the last six months against each factor.
7.9 In continuation (7.7), study actions taken in case of an abnormal percentage of idleness
against any of the factors listed. Were the actions taken of a short term nature or long
term nature? which of the factor (s) responsible for the idleness has persisted for a long
time ? Discuss how the reasons for idleness on account of this factor (s) weigh with
respect to the reasons due to the environmental factors like market changes or shifts in
the Govt. policy etc.
7.10 With explanations list all such equipments which have been included in the capacity
circulations but have not been used at all either due to defects or obsolescence or any
other reason.
7.11 What equipment is perpetually under-utilised and why/Try to explore if the equipments
capacity is far beyond the capacity of the system. If so, study why such an equipment was
procured in times of investigations like (i) possibility of future expansion. (ii) Lower
capacity equipment not profitable, etc. ? Can something be done to improve utilisation of
such equipment?
7.12 What equipment is frequently breaking down? Is it because of inherent defects in the
equipment or poor maintenance or poor operation or excessive usage allowing very little
time for maintenance?7.13 Draw the operation vs. idleness graphs for some critical machines and equipment. At
what equipment / station / load centre end the jobs are frequently queuing up? Why can
you think of a method to reduce the queue lengths?
7.14 If the shop is under the incentive scheme, write a short note on the salient features of the
scheme.
7.15 Describe the time standards fixed for each job. Are these considered tight or loose?
(Critical study of the work’s schedule would be of great help in working of these details.)
7.16 How many shifts are worked for the entire industrial unit, for some of the subsystems?
7.17 Is there any difference in the quality of the work produced in different shifts?
7.18 Does the payment to workers differ shift-wise?
7.19 In terms of difficulties like transportation, facility, food timings, etc are there any
problems for workers to arrive at or leave from the factory?
7.20 Is there a possibility for working more shifts that as of present?
7.21 Does the demand for the products justify working additional shifts? If so, what are the
obstacles in the way of working additional shifts?
7.22 Study the methods of preparing the production budgets.
monthly or weekly?
Are they prepared yearly,
7.23 If the production budgets are lower than the capacity, what have been the reason(s) for
fixing it so?
7.24 For a given year, if the production budget has been fixed higher than the capacity, discuss
the steps that can be taken to get that extra-production. (Some of these steps could be:
Subcontracting overtime, extra-capacity generation by buying extra equipment, running
extra shifts, etc.)
7.25 What use is made of capacity utilization figures by the top management as also by the
shop floor management?
7.26 Are these capacity utilization statements computerized? What is the time lag between the
reporting time and availability of these statements? Is there an excessive delay? If so,
why? Does this affect the validity of using of these statements?
7.27 Is the responsibility for the proper utilization of plant capacity fixed on any individual?
7.28 What is the rated capacity of the plant and for what product mix? What was the original
product mix that planners envisaged and what was the capacity for the same? In terms of
only the highest monthly figures, describe the maximum achievement of the plant, if
possible, since its inception.8.
INVENTORY
8.1 What arrangements exist in the plant for sorting of various materials, goods, components,
etc? Are there sub-stores in addition to the Central Store in the various departments?
8.2 Study how these stores are arranged and maintained. Further, describe procedures
adopted in the stores for the receipt of materials, goods, components, etc. and the
documentation of the same.
8.3 Describe the codification and cataloging methods adopted in the stores for different
material, goods, components, etc. Do the stores have any items on a self-replenishment
system? What is the system by which the inventory of these items is controlled?
8.4 Study the application of the ABC analysis to the Stores Department. What can be the
system for a periodic review of A items? Describe the communication system for
bringing to the attention of the concerned indenters that there is an excess of any
particular item. Also, discuss the procedure for the periodic review of inventories.
8.5 What is the system for indenting spares required by the Maintenance Department? What
can be the procedure for keeping check on consumption and indenting of spares?
Describe the precautions taken to ensure that the individual departments do not indent
haphazardly.
8.6 Discuss the methods adopted to check and to control the process inventories.
Study the norms for deciding the holding of these inventories, which department controls
and regulates these inventories?
8.7 Give the list of documents / vouchers used during the process of receiving, inspecting and
storing the material, goods, components (spare parts etc.) How are the materials, goods,
etc. issued? Who prepare the material requisition for the production goods, maintenance,
and sundry materials and for other miscellaneous requirements? How is the requisition
compiled with? How are the material and financial ledgers updated? How is the
materials moved to different shops? Are there delays in the issue of materials? If so,
what are they?
8.8 What is the procedure for returning by the shops the rejected purchased materials after
the issue by stores? Can these materials be returned to the vendors? Critically read a few
purchase orders and the legal provisions contained in them.
9.
QUALITY CONTROL
9.1
Describe the routine set-up inside the plant for the quality control and inspection of the
manufactured items.
9.2 Study what kind of reports are submitted by the Research & Development (R&D)
laboratory to the operational managers and also describe the type of review undertaken
by the later of these reports.
9.3 What to you understand by Statistical Quality control? Study its application in the
industrial unit under reference.9.4 For a foundry, study:
(i) How, before taping the metal, the chemical composition of the sample from the
melting furnace is determined.
(ii) How much time the analysis in (1) takes.
(iii) What alternate and better instruments are available for doing the job in (1).
(iv) How the time taken for the analysis affects the capacity of the furnace, and
(v) How the results of the analysis are used by the foundry to change the chemical
composition.
9.5 If the industrial unit under reference has a foundry then study if there is any method for
determining the composition of scrap and segregating various types of scrap into different
categories.
9.6 If the industrial unit has forge shop, a foundry and fabrication shop then, study the
following :
(i) How many and how samples are taken for tensile test? How are these samples
machined and what physical dimensions are ensured for the samples?
(ii) What testing machine is used? How are the samples tested?
(iii) How many samples are taken for testing hardness? Describe the total process for this
test.
9.7 ( i ) Clearly note the existence of the following gauges for checking dimensional
accuracy and their least count;
(a) Air gauges,
(b) Dial gauges,
(c) Dial indicators on micrometers,
(d) ‘Go’ and ‘No go’ gauges,
(e) Standard Instruments
(ii) How many cases are observed in the inspection records where, on re-inspection, a
different dimension was recorded? Note the name of the instrument in each of these
cases.
(iii) Study the gauge available with the workers. Compare its accuracy with that of the
inspection gauge. As a result, what percentage of jobs, passed by workers’ gauges, get
rejected by inspection gauge?
(iv) Study the frequency of errors in the setting of standard instruments and gauges.
Who sets the gauges and how is the setting done?
9.8 How is the surface finish specified? Is there any instrument to check the surface finish?
How does the instrument work?
9.9 How are other physical attributes like alignments, sequences, parallelism, true cylindrical
surface, true flat surface, etc. checked?
9.10 Make a list of specific facilities provided in the Tool Room for manufacture of master
gauges, inspection gauges and operating gauges, Also note all the instruments and
machines provided for the inspection of all these gauges. Further, describe the climatic
conditions ensured for the above equipment.9.11 Draw an organizational chart of the quality control department and indicate the level at
which the quality control and manufacturing departments have a common head. How are
problems of quality settled at intermediate levels?
9.12 Seek opportunities to study and describe the quality assurance techniques in terms of the
following:
(i) Chemical analysis, e.g., sand, cement. Steel, etc.
(ii) Physical analysis, e.g., size of grading of aggregates, strength tests on concrete
cubes, etc.
(iii) Dimensional checks, e.g. tolerances, fits, clearances and size, shape, etc.,
(iv) Condition checks, e.g. appearance, checks on completeness, stage checks such as
well preparation of reinforcement positioning.
(v) Radiographic tests, e.g. welds.
(vi) Performance tests e.g., pressure tests on vessels or popes, running tests on motors,
etc.
(vii) Special tests for special purposes, e.g., loading tests on driven pipes, noise tests, etc.
10.
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
10.1 Draw an organization chart for the whole organization. Indicate the following clearly;
(i) The levels of authority.
(ii) The span of control at each level,
(iii) The type of arrangement at each level in terms of line, line and staff and functional
details, and
(iv) Line and staff functions.
10.2 In the course of your study, superimpose on the formal organizational chart, the informal
organizational structure existing, indication if possible the relation behind deviations
between the formal structures.
10.3 For each sub-system, draw a detailed organizational chart indicating the arrangement of
personnel for line, line and staff and functional peaks at all levels, namely managers,
foremen supervisor and workers. Also, indicate the given subsystem’s relationship with
other subsystems. Pointing out the formal communication channels between the
subsystems, e.g. a machine shop in relation with maintenance. Tool room personnel
department, inspection, drawing office, production control, planning, other
manufacturing shops, etc.
10.4 (I) Trace the history of the organizational structure for last six to seven years and indicate
the major changes that have been brought about particularly in relation to:
(a) Number of levels of authority,
(b) Spans of control
(c) Ratio of staff to line officers.
(d) Line control changes in relation to responsibility for products or functions.
(e) Changes in financial and other powers for specific levels, etc.
(II) Study the overall effect of the changes mentioned in ( I )10.5 Identify formally constituted groups (These groups can consist of committees appointed
by the management at all levels. These committees may be standing committees or may
be ad-hoc ones and would also include shop committees). For each of the above groups,
study the following details:
When (year, month) was the group formed?
Who ordered the group?
Were the members to start with or later included in the ex officio capacity or by name?
Does the justification of the group exist today?
What are the functions of the groups?
Are there any functions being discharges by more than one group? If so, does it lead to
any conflicts?
10.6 Study the structure for workers’ councils at all levels.
10.7 Study the attitude of workers to changes in technology, products staff, etc.
10.8 Taking one of the staff department, say finance, indicate how it influences the working of
the line departments in their work. For instance, does the costing section hold regular
meeting with departmental managers to discuss variations between budget and
performance?
11. MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
11.1 (i) What are the documents/cards/memos required to be sent whenever a manufacturing
order is sent to the manufacturing shops?
(ii) What is the purpose of each document/card/memo?
(iii) Who prepared each of these records?
(iv) How do they reach the manufacturing shops (indicate the details of persons
carrying, handling over formalities, etc.)
(v) What is the final disposal of each record?
(vi) Which are the departments/officers who give remarks and sign on these
documents/cards/memos?
(vii) What lists are kept and where in order to indicate the following:
(a) Number of manufacturing orders pending in the shop.
(b) Number of manufacturing orders pending release (also given reasons)
(c) Number of manufacturing orders completed during a period
(d) Number of manufacturing orders suspended for some reasons.
(e) Number of manufacturing orders released on account of replacement of rejected
parts
(f) Number of manufacturing orders not connected with regular production line, etc.
11.2 Study if there are cases where the same information is being collected by various
departments and further, if this is leading to differences in figures provided by different
departments, e.g. differences in data of production as reported by the departments and the
finance department or in values of rejection, etc, as reported by the R&D Lab and the
individual departments.
11.3 Study how, at the departmental level, it is ensured that from the heap of data received the
relevant one is screened out.11.4 Study at various levels the communication network apart from the dark systems.
11.5 Study the organization of co-ordination meetings at the various levels, where the
problems are discussed every day every week, once a months, etc. How are the decisions
taken in such meetings communicated to all those who are to take action?
12. BUSINESS COMMUNICATION
12.1 Study and describe the form and structure of letters and memos in terms of the following:
(i) Requesting free materials,
(ii) Requesting information,
(iii) Requesting appointment,
(iv) Requesting approval,
(v) Placing an order by letter,
(vi) Transmitting important papers,
(vii) Confirming oral agreements,
(viii) Follow up letters and memos,
(ix) Writing promotion and sales letters,
(x) Turning down requests for services,
(xi) Responding to customer’s complaints,
(xii) Responding to requests for adjustments.
(xiii) Saying ‘N0’ to poor credit risks,
(xiv) Collecting over-due accounts,
(xv) Responding in the Executive’s absence, etc.
13.
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (R&D)
13.1 (i) Does the industrial unit under study has any foreign collaboration? If yes, know the
name of the foreign collaborating firm.
(ii) What is the proportion of foreign capital?
(iii) Study the exact nature of technology transfer in this case. The following factors may
be able to throw sufficient light.
Magnitude of technology transfer in terms of foreign exchange.
The state (characteristics ) of international market w.r.t. technology under study
Package deal transfer.
Turnkey basis project.
Only patent has been bought
(iv) Has there been any exchange of manpower with the foreign collaboration firms?
Know the details.
13.2 Does the industrial unit under study has its own R&D unit? If yes, know the following
details:
( i ) What percentage of sales turnover is invested in R&D per year?
( ii ) R&D expenditure figures for last few years.
( iii ) R&D manpower figures for the last few years
( iv ) percentage composition of the project undertaken at any time as per the following
classification :
(a)
Projects leading to new products
(b)
Projects leading to improved product.
(c)
Projects aimed at improving the process.
(d)
projects aimed at substituting new materials by indigenous cheaper ones.13.3Study the mechanism of project evaluation and selection used by the R&D unit.
13.4Know the various quantitative techniques used in the evaluation and selection of
projects; e.g. scoring models, economic models, optimization models, risk analysis
models, etc.
13.5Know if R&D efforts of the industrial unit under study has effected import substitution
or export promotion.
13.6Study the product life-cycle for different products of the industry under study
13.7Under what Programs the industrial unit under study undertakes to train and develop its
manpower?
13.8Does the industrial unit have any linkage with the universities and/or national research
laboratories? Give details.
13.9
Has the industrial unit under reference made any special product for the first time in the
country and thereby saved import of the concerned material? What is this product?
Study the history of its production. Does this material/product appear on the regular
production plan of the unit now?
13.10 Study if there is a well-laid out policy for import substitution of spare parts required by
the plant. Study how far this has resulted in inventory reductions.
13.11 What percentage of the plant capacities is utilized for the developmental work?
14. MATERIALS OF CONSTRUCTION
14.1
Mild steel, stainless steel, copper, aluminum, nickel, lead, titanium, paint, wood, glass,
ceramics (stoneware, porcelain), concrete, rubber and plastics, earth, etc. constitute list
of more important materials of construction in today’s context. In terms of the
industrial unit under reference, describe such materials of construction giving details
such as the following:
(i) Use,
(ii) What corrodes the material,
(iii) To what the material is resistant,
(iv) Cost
.
15. INSTRUMENTATION & CONTROL
15.1
List various measuring instruments and control devices observed in the plant, while
mentioning the variables they measure or control as well as describing the principle of
operation for each of them.16. WASTE MANAGEMENT
16.1 For the industrial unit under reference, are there any wastes? Give details.
16.2What type of environmental pollution problems are created by a thermal power plant
utilizing the pulverized coal as its source of energy?
16.3Describe the role that ( i ) Stacks, (ii), circulation water from condenser (iii) Ash slurry
disposal, and (iv) Effluents from the water treatment plant play in discharging of the
contaminates that cause pollution from a thermal power plant.
16.4What are the various corrective methods possible for reduction of pollution from the
thermal power station?
17. ENGINEERING DESIGN & DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANCY
17.1What do you understand by the term project Engineering?
17.2Go back to the days when the industrial unit under reference was first initiated by its
management as a project. Give names of the engineering design and development
consultancy organizations whose services the management had engaged during the
project implementation period and further state what type of services each of these
consultancy organizations had rendered.
18
DESIGN DECISIONS
(a)
Plant Size
18.1 The industrial unit under study has the given production capacity perhaps, right at time of
inception of this industrial project designer had a choice to make between one plant with
the entire production capacity as is the case now or several plants with several smaller
capacities or vice-versa. For the specific situation before you, in terms of the principles of
the techno-economic feasibility studies, critically unfold your understanding of the logic
behind the choice between these two alternatives.
18.2 Discuss with possible illustrations the role that various factors like:
( i ) Heavy/low investment,
( ii ) High/low return,
( iii ) Long delivery schedules from machinery suppliers, and
( iv ) Long gestation period coupled with teething troubles after commissioning to play in
defining the economic size of a production unit.
(b)
Site Location
18.3 critically discuss the role that the parameters such as:
( i ) Population density in an area where the plant is to be located,
( ii ) Availability of land.
( iii ) Any possibility of large scale dewatering during the plant construction
( iv ) Access to the site,
( v ) Availability of coal,
(vi) Availability of water, and
(vii) Soil characteristics can play in the choice of location for & thermal power station.18.4 Critically study the rationale behind the choice of site for the industrial unit under
reference.
(c) Transportation Route
From amongst different alternatives possible, critically discuss the choice of the present
transport route(s) between the raw-material availability locations and the plant site.
(d)
Site Layout
18.6 Read/Sketch and critically analyze the site layout drawing in terms of:
(i) Foundation requirements
(ii) Site and plant levels.
(iv) Circulating Water System requirements.
(v) Coal & Fuel Oil handling system requirements.
(vi) Ash and Duct disposal problems
(vii) Road and Rail access.
(viii) Requirements of ancillary buildings such as office, laboratory, workshops, stores,
and
(ix) Construction requirements
(e)
Basic Plant Design
18.7 For the industrial production unit under reference critically study the basic plant Design or
the plan outline design in terms of following details: -
(i) Efficient Operation.
(ii) Reliability of Operation.
(iii) Simplicity of Operation.
(iv) Safety in Operation.
(v) Working conditions.
(vi) Ease of Maintenance.
(vii) Minimum Expenditure.
(viii) Low capital cost, and
(ix) Minimum Operating Cost.
(f)
Plant Site
18.8 Critically discuss various factors that went behind the choice of the present plant site.
18.9 For the industrial production unit under reference, what were the various plant site
alternatives that were considered during the project implementation state?
18.10 With reference to questions (18.8) and (18.9) how did the following variables affect the
ultimate choice of the plant site.
(i) Market Availability,
(ii) Raw material location,
(iv) Availability of space for possible future expansions,(v) Availability of labor,
(vi) Availability of sufficient services such as water, gas, electricity, etc.
(vii) Type of transport needs,
(viii) Satisfactory access,
(ix) Satisfactory ground conditions, and
(x) Environmental problems, if any,
(g)
Plot plan
18.11
Read and draw a sketch of the ‘as is’ plot plan drawing for the industrial unit
under reference.
(h)
Plant Layout
18.12 Read as many drawings as possible and sketch some sample cases as illustrations from
the plant layout drawings giving certain details as the ones listed below: -
(i)
Main connections between various items of the plant such as circulating water
mains, main steam and feed piping, coal conveyers, electrical connections,
(ii) Major plant equipment arrangements,
(iii) Floor-wise arrangements of equipment in the building where major equipment
have been housed,
(iv) High pressure pipe work,
(v) Plant control arrangements,
(vi) Operating staff offices and amenities, etc.,
(i) Township Foundation & Superstructure
18.13 Study the foundations for the different buildings and plants of the industrial unit.
18.14 Study the nature of the building superstructures.
18.15 If the industrial unit under reference has its own township, sketch the same from the
point of view of an Architectural Engineer.
19. DESIGN CALCULATIONS
19.1 Whenever meaningful, carry out mass balance calculations for the production unit.
19.2 Whenever meaningful, carry out balance calculations for the production unit.
19.3 For the industrial unit under reference, list all the major equipment and through sample
design calculations obtain size and capacity of each of the major equipment for the given
production capacity of the plant.
19.4 Calculate the total water requirement for the plant as wall as the township. For the supply
of this water quantity, describe the water supply system. In the process list names, sizes
and capacities of the various major equipments of the water supply system.
19.5 For the given production capacity, estimate the electrical power demand for the plant.
How would this demand be modified if, say, the product capacity is doubled?19.6 In case the industrial, nit under reference involves piping installations, state various
considerations one must adhere to in the design and layout of any piping installations.
19.7 Given that the industrial unit has its own receiving substation, based on the power
requirements obtain size and capacity calculations for each of the major electrical
equipment for the sub-station.
20. UTILITIES
20.1 For the industrial unit under reference, list all the utilities and services needed.
20.2 If the industrial unit under reference happens to be an electrical power plant, then describe
the generation of electricity with the help of a flow diagram consisting of the energy refer
to a book on the power plant practice that might be available in the industrial production
unit.
20.3 In continuation of the details of the task number (20.2) study the steam and water circuits
for a boiler unit.
20.4 If the industrial unit has fuel and ash handling plants then describe the constituents of the
same.
20.5 In continuation of the details of the task number (20.2) discuss feed water heating system
as well as cooling water and condenser plant for the turbine section of the power plant.
Such kind of discussion should invariably incorporate schematic diagrams.
20.6 List various auxiliary services required for a modern power plant.
21. DRAWINGS & MAP READING
21. Undertaking map-reading assignments in terms of the following :
(i) Geological map.
(ii) Road and Railways map.
(iii) General location map.
(iv) Plant layout and
(v) Master plan for township.
21.2 Study various legends that are used in different drawings towards indicating details such
as state boundary, district boundary, broad-gage, meter-gage, approach road (metallic),
national highway, all weather road, fair weather road, river, discharge canal, coal field,
etc.
21.3 Study different legends for various types of valves and pumps.
22.
PROJECT ENGINEERING
22.1 What was the year in which the industrial production unit under
consideration was commissioned?22.2 Between the identification of the product need and the stage when the plant goes into
production there are several stages such as:
(i) Feasibility study,
(ii) Preliminary scheme,
(iii) Preparation of the project data,
(iv) Overall financial assessment,
(v) Approval
(vi) Scheme execution,
(vii) Design,
(viii) Procurement,
(ix) Construction, and
(x) Commissioning,
Needless to say all these stages go to form what is termed as the Project implementation
Period. These stages are normally described in the Project Report which is generally
prepared in the context of the feasibility study. Preparation of such a project report is a
routine necessity and is for the industrial unit under reference. Also, such report should
normally be available in the library of the unit. This report certainly contains a vast
amount of data in terms of many of the questions that have been posed so far and many of
those that are to follow. Critically study such project reports for industrial unit under
consideration.
22.3 Study the project schedule network describing activities till the commissioning stage for
the industrial production unit under reference. This network should normally be available
in the concerned project report. It may be noted that the project schedule network
preparation involves application of PERT & CPM techniques.
22.4 For the industrial unit under reference with the given yearly production capacity obtain
following calculations:
(i) Total area of the land and premises.
(ii) Total roofed over area for works,
(iii) Total roofed over area for the storage of the finished product.
(iv) Total roofed over area of office and other buildings.
(v) Supervision and erection cost in Rupees during the project implementation stage.
(vi) Names of the design and consultancy organization(s) which assisted in the
completion of the project during the project implementation stage,
(vii) Breakdown of the major equipment costs, for the maintenance workshop and
laboratory,
(viii) Breakdown of the major electrical equipment cost,
(ix) Raw material consumption figures per unit of production,
(x) Units of volume of water consumed per unit of production,
(xi) Fuel oil consumption per unit of production,
(xii) Electricity consumption per unit of production,
(xiii) Number of staff of following categories:
Executive: Managerial, Technical, Administrative Staff
Production: Foreman, Skilled workers, Unskilled workersMaintenance: Skilled workers, Unskilled workers, Laboratory Staff,
Sales Department, etc.
(xiv) For the plant requirements at various levels, what are the estimates of time for the
on job training of the local employees?
23.
INFRASTRUCTURAL FACILITIES
23.1 Below are listed some of the facilities and concessions to provide infrastructural facilities
to an industrial unit.
(i) Improvement of road to facilitate traffic movements,
(ii) Approach road to the plant site,
(iii) Establishment of hospital schools, PT office and public telephone systems,
(iv) Establishment of marketing centers and banking facilities,
(v) Public Transport,
(vi) Facilities for small scale industrial units to manufacture household equipment,
furniture and fittings,
(vii) Supply of water to the industrial projects as well as the nearby villages and thereby
allowing use of water at subsidized rates,
(ix) Extension of concession by establishment of HT substation for the plant site and
distribution of power to the Plant Township, etc.
For the industrial unit under study, list and briefly discuss the nature of infrastructural
facilities such as the ones listed above.
24. PLANT ECONOMY
24.1 For certain industrial products of great importance, Project Authorities have been
established, with a view to encourage production. With the help of these authorities
certain subsides can be obtained to reduce the cost of industrial project. These subsides
can be as follows:
(i)Central Capital subsidy,
(ii) Subsidy on the transport cost towards delivery of plant and machinery,
(iii) Subsidy on mining and housing schemes,
(iv) Subsidized rate of acquisition of land and free use of trees for construction work.
(v) Use of local construction material free from royalty, etc.
List various industrial products and the type of subsides of the above type which are
received towards their production. Give detailed description of the subsidies in case of
the industrial unit under reference.
24.2 For a given mining project, undertake to do cost-comparison between following three
transport systems between the crusher house to the main plant.
(i) Ropeway,
(ii) Belt conveyor, and
(iii) Dumper Truck,24.3 From the study of the project report, describe various items that go to define the project
cost till the stage of commissioning.
24.4 For a production unit, following are some of the items that go to define the production
cost.
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
(vii)
Raw Materials
Consumables,
Utilities
Labor and plant overhead,
Repairs and maintenance,
Light,
Administrative and sales expenses, etc.
For the industrial unit under reference, obtain the total production cost incorporating
above and other similar items.
24.5
Financial analysis constitutes an important step in the implementation of any industrial
project and is done before the receipt of necessary approvals. It normally consists of
following details:
Project cost,
Mode of finance,
Cost of production,
Profitability analysis,
Cash low statement,
Breakeven analysis
Balance-Sheet, and
Sensitivity analysis,
Try to understand and hence describe what these topics mean through the study of the
project report of the industrial unit under reference.
24.6 Taking the case of the industrial unit under reference as an illustration comprehensively
discuss the role that following and similar other items go to play towards the formulation
of any industrial projects cost:
(i) Land and land rights,
(ii) Roads and railway sidings,
(iii) Ancillary buildings,
(iv) Civil and architectural works,
(v) Equipment cost, installed and spare parts cost,
(vi) Consulting requirements,
(vii) Consulting engineering charges,
(viii) Colony and housing,
(ix) General and establishment charges,
(x) Vehicles,
(xi) Contingency, etc.24.7 The total product cost is made of manufacturing costs and general expenses.
The manufacturing costs can be further classified into:
(i) Direct production cost,
(ii) Fixed charge and,
(iii) Plant overhead costs,
The general expenses normally consist of the following:
(iv) Administrative expenses,
(v) Distribution and marketing expenses,
(vi) Research and development,
(vii) Financing interest (this is sometimes also considered a fixed charge) and
Gross earning expenses,
Each of the above mentioned sub-costs can be further sub-divide.
For example, while the direct production costs can be considered to be made of :
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
(vii)
(viii)
(ix)
Raw material,
Operating labor,
Operating supervision,
Power and utilities (consisting steam, electricity, fuel, refrigeration, water, etc.)
Maintenance and repairs,
Operating supplies,
Laboratory charges,
Royalties,
Catalysts and solvents, etc.
The fixed charges can be sub-divided into:
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
Depreciation,
Taxes (property),
Insurance and
Rent,
Similarity the plant overhead costs are made of:
(i) Medical expenses,
(ii) Safety and protection,
(iii) General plant overhead,
(iv) Payroll overhead,
(v) Packaging,
(vi) Restaurant,
(vii) Recreation,
(viii) Salvage,
(ix) Control laboratories,
(x) Plant superintendence,
(xi) Storage facilities, etc.Finally, if the administrative expenses can be further sub-divided into details like :
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
Executive salaries,
Clerical charges,
Engineering and legal costs,
Office maintenance,
Communications, etc.
The distribution and marketing expenses are normally made of :
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
Sales office,
Salesmen expenses,
Transportation of product,
Advertising,
Technical sales service, etc.
For the products pursued by the industrial unit under reference, study the breakup of the
total product cost.
24.8 Study and describe the formats of the following accounting procedures :
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
Consolidated balance-sheet,
Consolidated income statement,
Ledger keeping,
Manufacturing cost works inventory,
Cost-of sales account, and
Accumulation account for the materials,
25. INFORMATION PROCESSING CENTER:
This assignment would expect you to know the details pertaining to different generations
of computers, details of some commonly available 8 bit, 32 bit & 64 bit microprocessors.
Also it assumes that you know popular Operating Systems: now summarize the
information of the Professional Processing Centre Industrial Unit where you are attending
your IP-I course in terms of the following:
(i) Name, model, manufacturer of the Computers available,
(ii) Single user systems or multi-user systems with details,
(iii) Nature and amount of each computer system available.
(iv) Configuration of each computer system available.
(v) Specifications of printers being used.
(vi) Operating System name with respect to each computer.
(vii) Languages supported by each Operating System & those available,
(viii) Name of the line/text editors in each of the systems available.EVALUATION COMPONENTS
Instruments
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Quiz
Seminar/Viva
Group Discussion
Project Report
Observation
Diary
Weightage
10%
25%
15%
30%
15%
5%
POINTS JUDGED THROUGH EACH EVALUATION INSTRUMENT
Important points of evaluation to be judged in each of the instruments are given below :
Quiz (Total weightage – 10%)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Knowledge of basic concepts and physical principles.
Additional knowledge acquired.
Ability to apply the knowledge of basic concepts and physical principles.
Ability to analyze a given problem or situation.
Ability to follow logical path in problem-solving efforts.
Seminar / Viva (Total weightage 25%)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Knowledge of basic concepts and physical principles.
Additional knowledge acquired.
Ability to apply the knowledge of basic concepts and physical
principles.
Logical development of the subject.
Effective oral communication.
Self-reliance, cooperation and moderation.
Group Discussion (Total weightage 15%)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Knowledge and comprehension of the problem/topic introduced for group
discussions.
Level of participation.
Ability to lead discussion in correct direction and cooperate with fellow members.
Ability to initiate the topic when discussions subside.
Ability to suggest new ideas for extending and improving group discussion.
Ability to moderate discussions.
Ability to create good impression on observers and members.Project Report (Total weightage – 30%)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Knowledge and comprehension of the problem.
Introducing the problem/subject and setting the objectives of the project.
Ability to analyze the problem.
Logical sequencing, organization and data handling in the problem.
Concluding remarks in terms of the objectives set earlier and the future
scope of the problem.
Presentation of the abstract with precision.
Observation (Total weightage 15%)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Regularity and ability to meet deadlines.
Sense of responsibility.
Initiative, leadership and cooperation.
Industry.
Social sense and adaptability to practical situations.
Diary (Total Weightage – 5%)
1. Data procurement, calculations and presentations.
2. Thought process.
3. RegularityIP-I CALENDAR
1st day
1st day to 5th day
5th day
8th to 10th day
15th to 17th day
25th day
25th to 27th day
28th day
34th to 35th day
42nd to 44th day
50th day
53rd day to 56th day
On or before 65th days
internship program-I students report to Internship Program -II faculty
at the Stations; internship program-I starts
Distribution of internship program-I course handouts to the students.
Dispatch of Primary Information Report and two copies of Handout to
the University by the faculty.
Quiz I and display of marks and feedback to the students on Quiz 1.
Group discussion I and display of marks and feedback to the students
on Group discussion I.
Submission of Project Report I by the students.
Seminar, I, Evaluation of Project Report I, Display of Marks,
Feedback to the Students on Seminar I and Project Report I.
Display of Mid-Term Grades to the students; Guidance and counseling
to the students. Dispatch of Mid-Term grading to the University.
Quiz II and Display of marks and feedback on Quiz-II to the students.
Group Discussion II and Display of marks and feedback on Group
Discussion II to the students.
1. Submission of Project Report II by the students.
2. Distribution of Feedback questionnaire with answer sheets to the
students.
1. Seminar II
2. Evaluation of Project Report II
3. Evaluation of Observation and Diary component.
4. Display of total marks obtained by students.
5. Final grading.
6. Collection of feedback questionnaires.
7. Checking that students have no dues.
Submission of Final Grading , internship program-I Register, Project
Reports, Feedback Questionnaires from students to the University.
Note : The starting and closing dates as announced by the Division, are to be
followed strictly. These dates should not be changed without prior permission of the
University and they are statuary requirements of the University.
