. ELIGIBILITY & REGISTRATION:
1. TPO aims to provide placement assistance for all final year students. Placement is a privilege extended
to the students but can't be claimed as a matter of right.
2. Students should register their names by submitting the Students' Data Sheet as per the prescribed
format given by the TPO. Only those students who have registered are eligible to participate in the
placement activities.
3. Campus placement is a facility provided to the students. Registration is compulsory for the interested
students and not interested in placement are advised not to register.
4. Students will be allowed to have a single job offer only, provided:
a.
Category -I : - Up to 6 LPA (Safe Offer)
Category -II : - ≥ 6.0 LPA & ≤ 10 LPA (Safe offer; Category-I students cannot apply)
Category -III : - > 10 LPA to ≤ 14.0 LPA (Dream offer for only Category –I students;
Category-II students cannot apply)
Category -IV : - 14.0 LPA and above (Dream offer for all categories; Students of all
categories; I, II & III can apply)
b. Once a student bags a job offer from a dream company, he/ she will not be allowed to
participate in any campus recruitment process at all. Moreover, already placed students but
not placed in "Dream Company" shall be allowed for the second job offers after completion
of 80% placement of registered and eligible students of individual discipline.
c. The above policy categorization will be strictly followed. Therefore, it’s the responsibility of
each student to decide carefully before attending the process of a company.
5. The eligibility criteria imposed by the visiting company will be the final.
6. Invariably each company keeps a clause of service agreement (2 to 3 years), the students post joining
should abide by that. Service agreement imposed by a company should not be a hindrance for a student
to opt for a company’s process
7. TPO arranges company from pan India location and as such company location should not be a
constraint for a student while opting for a company8. The eligible/registered students must attend all the training programs/workshops arranged by the TPO.
For the students who are not participating in any of the activities will be participating in placements
process on their own risk and TPO doesn’t hold any responsibility for the same.
9. All kinds of clarifications & communications (such as registration for placement assistance, updating
the database, etc.,) should be executed through TPO only.
10. If any student is not applying consistently for 3 applicable companies, he /she will be debarred from
the entire process of placement for the whole academic year.
11. During induction, most of the companies insist on Passport and PAN card. Thus, the students are
expected to apply for the same at the earliest.
12. Students may have to manage their own transport arrangements to return home and inform their
parents well in advance if the proceedings on the date of the selection process continue till the late
evening.
13. Based on the directions given by the companies, students may be sent to attend pooled campus
placement drives in other colleges. Students should inform their parents about the placement process,
venue, and timings in advance.
14. Students attending campus interviews should adhere to the following instructions,
a) Report at the venue of pre-placement talk and interview as per the instructions.
b) Students should carry a minimum of 3 copies of their resume, photocopies of all Original
certificates, and 5 passport size photographs.
c) A student in casual dress will not be allowed for the PPT/Recruitment Process.
B. RESUME
15. Students are expected to follow the institute resume template (already shared) for preparing the
resumes.
16. The details given in the resume have to be genuine and any student found violating this will be
disallowed from the placement for the rest of the academic year.
C. PRE-PLACEMENT TALKS (PPT)
17. Students should be seated in the venue 15 minutes before the scheduled start of the PPT.
18. All Students must attend in all the companies visiting for pre-placement talk.
19. Any clarification regarding salary break-up, job profile, place of work, bond details, date of joining,
etc. must be sought from the companies during PPT or interview.
20. DRESS CODE: Students must be formally dressed whenever they participate in any interaction with a
company
**This office reserves the right to refuse permission to a student to attend the selection
process/PPT if they do not dress up formally. Students are expected to know the norms forformal wear; for the benefit of those who claim ignorance, please note that the following are
strictly not allowed:
•T-shirts with printed text; un-collared T-shirts;
•Shorts
•
•Jeans
Shirt not-tucked in
•Chappals / flip-flops
D. PLACEMENT PROCESS
21. It is the responsibility of the student to check announcements/notices / updated information /
shortlisted names etc. in the notice boards of the TPO Notice Board.
22. During the process if any student has any issues should immediately brought to the notice of the TPO
or corresponding Placement Manager.
23. ATTENDANCE & PUNCTUALITY:
a. A student who applies and gets shortlisted is bound to go through the entire selection process unless
rejected midway by the company. Any student who withdraws deliberately in the middle of a selection
process will be disallowed from placement for the rest of the academic year.
b. LATE COMERS FOR APTITUDE TEST / GD / INTERVIEW will not be allowed to appear for the
selection process.
24. DISCIPLINE:
a) Students should maintain discipline and exhibit etiquette in every action they take during the
placement process. Any student found violating the discipline rules set by the company or defaming
the institute's name will be disallowed from the placements for the rest of the academic year.
b) Students found cheating or misbehaving in the selection process (Test / GD / Interview) will be
disallowed from the placements for the rest of the academic year.
E. JOB OFFERS
25. A copy of the offer letter is required to be submitted by the student select to the placement office.
26. If a student is offered a second job, he/she must give a letter of regret to the company, which offered
the first job and a letter of acceptance to the second.
27. After accepting a job offer, if any student decides to withdraw his/her acceptance any time during the
year, he/she must inform the company concerned through the TPO immediately. Student rejecting a
particular offer shall not be allowed to apply for further companies, under any circumstances.
28. Post Placement: Due to unknown reasons, if the Company delay or stop boarding student selects, in
that case the institute does not stand responsible for the sameRejection grounds for students:
29. Students may be debarred /blacklisted from the placement if he/she is found involved in any act of
indiscipline or engaged in malpractices during their academics
30. Students giving wrong data/information to the Training and Placement Coordinators, He/she will be
debarred from the placement activities for the rest of the academic year.
31. Students cannot drop out from the selection process once he/she has been shortlisted for further rounds
after the first round selection. Disciplinary action will be taken against defaulter student/s.
32. Any kind of misbehavior/complaints reported by the company officials/ faculty/ staff/ volunteers will
be taken seriously & those evolve will be debarred/ blacklisted from future campus placements
33. For all matters not covered by the above regulations, the Placement Office will use its discretion to
take appropriate decisions. The decision taken by this office shall be binding on all students/scholars.
Placement team
Endorsed by: - ICFAI-Tech
The Director - IcfaiTech, IFHE
DECLARATION BY THE STUDENT / PARENT / GAURDIAN:
I hereby certify that I have read the entire terms and conditions as mentioned above of the Training &
Placement Department. I shall abide by the terms & conditions as well as all clauses contained therein.
Name of the Student:Name of the Parent:
Enrolment No:Mobile No:
Mobile No:Email-ID:
Registered Email:Occupation:
Branch :Address: Aurangabad Maharashtra
Signature of the StudentSignature of the Parent
Date:Date: