UNIVERSITY POLICY FOR MAKEUP EXAMS
The following is the University policy for evaluation & grading of students appearing for
makeup exams under various conditions;
1) Shortage of Attendance: A student not eligible for an end-term exam because of
shortage of Attendance (SA) is required to re-register for the course or can be permitted
to write Summer Term / Supplementary exams or reregister for the course/courses in
the next offering. The student is NOT allowed to write ‘End Term Makeup’ exam. In
this case the grading is done based on the Summer term marks.
2) Students who are eligible to write an End-term/Comprehensive exam, but would be
absent due to genuine reasons (for example, hospitalization, death in the family, acts of
God) that should be justified with the necessary formal evidence, are allowed to write
the corresponding End-term/Comprehensive ‘Make-up’ exam. In this case the grading
will be done based on Internals and the Comprehensive ‘Make-up’ exam
3) Students whose results are declared and wish to improve their grades in specific courses
are permitted to write the corresponding or next available End-term/Comprehensive
‘Make-up’ exam(s) with the condition that their corresponding internals will be
applicable without any change. For instance, if a student who would have earlier earned
an overall ’B’ Grade in a course (internal + End-term /Comprehensive exam marks)
chooses to write the ‘Make-up’ exam in order to improve his/her grade, but instead
secures a ‘C’ grade overall (original internal + latest End-term/Comprehensive ‘Make-
up’ exam marks), then the ‘C’ grade will be used for the GPA and CGPA calculations.
This condition is being placed in order to guide students to avoid attempting grade
improvement in an unrestrained or even casual manner
4) If a student gets <20% out of the total of 100 marks in the End-term/Comprehensive
examination (i.e. if the marks secured are 19 or less), the student will be awarded the
‘NC’ Grade. Then, the student shall take the corresponding Supplementary /Summer
term exam in the respective course. In this case the grading is done based on the
Summer term marks.
5) If a student is involved in malpractice case and the is awarded with RC grade has to
reregister for the course in the next offering.

